let's get started as a kid i was
obsessed with perfectionism for a while
i tried to eat perfectly spend all my
time studying avoid wasting any time on
fun and games
i initially did this because i felt
lonely and unloved as a kid and i wanted
people to seem
to like me for something this kind of
paid off for a while when i got into
middle school i was deemed gifted
praised by all my classmates for being
smart
i tried desperately to maintain this but
of course burned out within a year
as i've been setting higher and higher
expectations of intelligence for myself
i've become more and more afraid of
falling short
i feel like if i try my best at
something and fail i'll hate myself
and i'm afraid of that so i don't really
put much
effort into anything anymore my mind is
now hardwired to do things perfectly or
not at all
if i'm not in the perfect mood to go to
the gym i don't go
if i can't do an assignment perfectly
and in the right mood i don't do it i
can't perform perfectly in a game
i don't enjoy it i cope with these
feelings by telling myself that i could
accomplish anything if i tried but i
never actually do
i also spend a lot of time maladaptive
daydreaming
to distract myself from feelings of
inadequacy
i just don't know what to do about any
of this i'm in college now and i feel
like i'm mentally deficient because
all of the time i've struggled with
perfectionism
i have almost no motivation for anything
in life besides basic pleasures i didn't
even solve
my initial issue of loneliness i feel
like i'm an incomplete version of normal
people who are actually competent have
proper support systems
and know what they want in life all
right so
i know this sounds kind of weird so this
post was made 12 hours ago
um i already responded to it actually
so i first of all i just want to thank
people in the community who respond on
our subreddit because i think that
you know i can't get to everyone and i
really appreciate that some of y'all
like actually know our content
better than i do um so i'm really
grateful when people go out of their way
to like respond to these kinds of posts
try to support these people because
y'all can do it too that's the whole
point
so this is where the other thing that i
i kind of want to do for a second
is actually show you guys
so the reason that we made dr k's guides
is because this is a common problem
right so like people face this thing
and the challenge with with
perfectionism is that
it's not like a psychiatric diagnosis
like you you know you can sort of walk
into a therapist's office and you can
say
you know i'm perfectionistic but there
isn't like a particular playbook
to deal with perfectionism it's not
something that we're sort of trained
to deal with in an explicit way so there
are a lot of elements here which i think
we see which um
you know if you guys haven't watched
this this is a good video i think this
is
you know early on this is one of our
first uploads and i think it's gotten
you know three quarters of a million
views and
we hear a lot of good feedback on this
video because this
how intelligence leads to avoidance is
like a big part of this story
but there are other elements too and so
we actually have
um in dr k's guides in the guide on
depression
there's actually a particular video
called falling behind that talks about
this sort of stuff and so what i'm
tempted to do
is actually just share a piece of this
video with y'all right now
one source of feeling depressed is the
persistent feeling of falling behind
and i see this way too often that people
are kind of feeling like
they've fallen behind and everyone else
is kind of moving on with their life
and here i am kind of stuck unable to
kind of catch up
and so in order to understand and
overcome the sense of
falling behind we're going to start by
sort of exploring where it comes from
then we're going to look at how it
manifests in the mind
then we're going to take a look at what
our mind normally tries to do to fix it
and finally we'll show you guys a
different way to kind of overcome this
sensation
so to begin with the sense of falling
behind starts with something that i
usually call the
problem of escalating impossibility so
this is best illustrated if you think
about procrastinating before a test
so let's say that i have a test that's a
month away and
i kind of look at my syllabus and i say
okay i need to study one hour a day for
the rest of the month and i'll be fine
one hour a day for one month and i'm
going to get an a on the test no problem
and so is that what we actually do
absolutely not
right a couple days go by we're
definitely not going to study because
our mind is we're going to watch a clip
plenty of time we just need to study one
hour a day we have 27 days left
no big deal we're good and then a week
goes by
and now you start to have this little
thought in the back of your mind hey
maybe i should start studying like
actually a week has gone by and i
haven't even cracked the books like not
even once
i'm gonna have to study about maybe 1.5
hours a day but that's still super
manageable i can do that every single
day
and then as that that thought kind of
crawls up in the back of your mind you
actually try to push it away right
so we start to distract ourselves by
maybe playing video games or watching tv
or whatever
in the back your mind your thought is
there as you watch each episode binge
watching oh maybe i should start
studying now
maybe i should start studying now but
instead you're like no no no let's just
keep watching just don't worry about it
we'll be fine we have plenty of time
and then two weeks roll by and now we've
got a couple of weeks left and now the
panic
just starts to set in just a tiny amount
i've wasted two weeks
but i've still got two weeks left and i
can still do it
two hours a day and i'll be totally fine
for the test and then
each day that goes by that we don't
study
the panic grows a little bit and then we
get into this vicious cycle because the
more the panic grows
the harder it becomes to study and then
i find myself being like okay i have 10
days left
it's the weekend oh my god am i going to
be able to do it and then what we end up
doing is like partying all weekend long
because we don't want to think about the
test
and the more negative emotion we feel
the more we have to distract ourselves
the more we have to try to forget and
every day that goes by it can feel like
that
that perfect score on the test is
getting further and further away
and then you have to study five hours a
day and then you have to study eight
hours a day
and at some point it starts to feel
impossible and at some point you kind of
feel this gigantic mishmash of
regret for not starting earlier last
minute
last minute panic to kind of push you
forward and actually start studying
finally and also like kicking yourself
because oh man this would have been so
easy if i had started earlier
and so in this jumble of emotions we
kind of it's like all of these emotions
that we're feeling
we show up and we we take the test and
we try to forget about it immediately
right we go and we distract ourselves we
go party oh my god it's
thank god it's over so the question
becomes
where did all of that emotional energy
that was building up over
the course of the month where did it go
because you feel that instant relief
it's over it's in the past
push it out of my mind as hard as i can
the problem is that each time we do that
that sense kind of
that emotional energy sort of gets
buried in our mind as a some scott
and we sort of have this sense that i'm
someone
okay chat we're gonna just jump forward
okay so that's the general premise
there's some stuff in the middle i'm the
more insignificant
any step i need seen in a long time and
so we were at this christmas party i was
26 or 27
and then she asked me i'll look what are
you up to and i was like yeah
school and look how far she's come and i
haven't even like i haven't even gotten
in i don't even know if i'm going to get
into medical school and she's
already done with it and it can feel so
shaming to be in that situation and when
i think about
like what my mind tells me in that
moment it tells me man do you have a lot
of catching up to do
and this is the tricky thing is that the
more that i have to catch up
the bigger the mountain that i need to
climb the more
insignificant any step i need to take is
and this is the real problem with
catching up which is that catching up
is an action that's wrapped in an
expectation
and what i mean by that is that the
actions that i have to take
irrespective of whether i'm behind or
not that's just all a mental
construction
the actions that i have to take are
actually exactly the same
whether i'm trying to lose a bunch of
weight if i'm trying to lose 100 pounds
or 50 pounds or 20 pounds
the action is still the same it's still
to go to the gym the problem is that if
i'm trying to lose 100 pounds and i go
to the gym
then it feels like i haven't really
taken a step forward
and so as i try to catch up the more my
mind tells me you need to catch up you
need to catch up you need to catch up
the harder it is to actually take one
step forward
so bizarrely what we need to do in order
to move forward
is to let go of catching up and
if we want to move forward from falling
behind what we really need to do is let
go of catching up
and this idea that you've fallen behind
because it doesn't matter i mean
behind is a mental construction catching
up is a mental construction
if you want to get into shape you have
to go to the gym that's the only way
forward
your way forward is exactly the same in
this complex
of falling behind and catching up is
just layered on top of your mind
and makes every action way more hard
so then that begs the question why is it
so damn hard to let go of catching up
why is it so damn hard to let go of
falling behind
and this is where the redemption arc
comes in because we've been raised on a
culture
of triumph that the hero at 45 minutes
into the movie
is you know everything is stacked
against him and that's when you dig deep
and you really win and you become an
amazing person so i remember after that
christmas party
you know i went home and i was like
laying in bed and i was thinking the
only way that i can catch up
is i have to go to harvard because she
didn't go to harvard and if i go to
harvard i'm going to do better than her
i'll be better than her
i can actually catch up the more far
behind i fall
the more i have to become awesome and
magnificent
if i've dropped out of a collet if i've
dropped out of college i have to start
a billion dollar tech startup to make up
for it
and in that moment what our mind is
trying to do is we have all of this
dormant
emotional energy all of these times that
we've told ourselves
you can do better you should have
started studying earlier why are you so
dumb why didn't you start why didn't you
start why didn't you start
all that emotion emotional energy is
sitting down there
and so what our mind has to do is i need
a triumph i need a victory
i need something that can make me feel
so good about myself
that it's stronger than all of that
toxicity
of me being a person who's fallen behind
and that's the real problem is because
if i tell you to stop catching up
if i tell you to let go of catching up
what are you letting go of
is that fantasy of that triumph you
become in your
mind the hero who just quits at 45
minutes
right instead of triumphing over
everything and being the victor
i'm suddenly just a guy who is 26 years
old and applying to medical school
so the desire to catch up is actually
what keeps us stuck
and if you really want to move forward
you have to let that go
you have to let go of the entire
construction right because what does it
mean to have fallen behind it's a
construct of the mind
what does it mean to catch up it's a
construct of the mind what does it mean
to have triumph in redemption
it's all thoughts in my head if i meet
that my friend you know next year at the
christmas party
it's just a conversation i'm gonna have
if i'm in medical school i'm in medical
school if i've caught up
i've caught up if i haven't whatever
it's just it's all the same if i'm a
medical student i'm a medical student
reality is one thing and we just layer a
construct on top of it
so the way to move forward is to let go
of catching up
the way to move forward is to recognize
that action can only be taken in the
present
and moving forward may never let me
catch up but i don't need to catch up
all i really need to do to become
unstuck is to move
forward and so the problem of falling
behind
this some scatter falling behind is
something that people struggle with a
lot
and my hope is that by understanding how
it's born
how it's how it manifests how our mind
tries to deal with it
we can actually take a slightly
different approach
we can unplug that entire mental
construction
and start to actually do something that
moves our
our life in the right direction so let's
talk about this for a second
so like this is like literally why we
made dr k's guides like literally
it's because like these problems that
people face right like these things that
people post 12 hours ago it
really wasn't a plan like and you guys
know like this is what we deal with
and the the issue is that there are
actually things that can be done about
this so let's kind of unpack this
and the reason that i showed it is
because frankly any explanation that i
give here is
not going to be as clean and as polished
as like what's in the guide because
you know we wrote out a script and we
did takes and all that good stuff
but here's here are a couple of elements
to it okay
these are the the guides that are being
released in like
six weeks or something so here's the
thing so someone says okay i'm
perfectionistic like why are they
perfectionistic
so they have the element of you know
being gifted at the beginning right
which is the whole intelligence leads to
avoidance things so check out that
youtube video
but then here's the big problem with
being perfectionistic
as i fall behind i have in my mind a
mental anchor of where i should be
and then the challenge is that if i take
a step
towards where i should be so like let's
say like i'm 100 pounds overweight
if i lose two pounds and i
set a mental anchor that i need to lose
a hundred it feels like i haven't made
any progress
like if if i feel kind of insecure about
myself if i feel like i've fallen behind
i lose two pounds of weight and then
instead of being inspired by that my
body actually does the
my my mind does the opposite it says
like this is never gonna be enough
as long as i strive for perfection as
long as i anchor myself to some
artificial goal
anything that i do is never going to be
enough
but if i let go of that that
perfectionism if i let go of that then
like
losing two pounds like in order to lose
100 pounds i have to lose two pounds
absolutely if my goal is to lose a
hundred pounds it has to start by losing
two i can't lose
all 100 all at once but the problem
is that when we have this idea of
perfectionism we set up this goal for
ourselves of what we want to be
and as we like move towards that goal
instead of like actually be
getting positive reinforcement by taking
one step forward
the more we strive for perfectionism the
harder it is to actually take like one
step forward because
anything that you do on the journey is
going to be insufficient
won't be perfectionistic so then you end
up staying stuck
right so like i'm not going to try
anything until i can be perfect
which in turn means that i'm paralyzed
because i can never try anything
because the first time i try something
i'm never going to be perfect
and so this this is a huge problem so
how do you let go of that right it's
about sort of like
understanding where did this idea of
perfectionism come from because it is a
construct of the mind
there's no such thing as a perfect
anything
like you look around there's no such
thing as a perfect like walk outside
like i'm you know i'm in a place where
there are plants outside so if you look
outside
there's no such thing as a perfect plant
perfection is a construct of the human
mind it cannot be found in nature in
nature the only thing that is is just
like what is there's no such thing as a
perfect rock
there's no such thing as a perfect orbit
there's no such thing as like a perfect
anything right it's a human construct
even geometric perfection is like that's
a that's a human that says that this is
geometric perfection
right we're the ones who apply the
standard of perfection it's not a real
thing
and so like the more that we chase that
idea of perfection
the more it actually paralyzes us
because anything so this is what i would
the
key point that i want y'all to
understand if you hold on to
perfectionism
it is actually does not reinforce
progress
progress and perfectionism are at two
ends of the spectrum
and because if i like if i want to
iterate if i want to try if i want to
get better if i want to progress
progress is not about the end it's about
the beginning or the next step
and so the more i hold on to
perfectionism the harder it is to
progress
i won't let myself progress and so
that's that's the huge scam about this
kind of thinking
and y'all are right that like you know
it's hard right because if you let go of
your perfectionism like what are you
left with
because the reason that you need the
perfectionism is because you have to
make up for like all the stuff that you
didn't do right
we look at this case you know like
my mind is now hardwired to do things
perfectly or not at all
if i'm not in the perfect mood to the
gym i don't go
right so like this is the problem so
then then like where did this come from
and so this this this is a result of
this right here
as i begin setting higher and higher
expectations of intelligence for myself
i become more and more afraid of falling
short and you can't like
there's no such thing as falling short
falling short is all about
not living up to an expectation in your
mind if i lose two pounds at the gym i
lose two pounds of the gym if i do 10
push-ups i do 10 push-ups if i do 20
push-ups i do 20 push-ups
the action plus the x and the
expectation need to be separated
so if you're stuck in perfectionism what
you need to do is separate the action
from the expectation
recognize that like everything in your
head is just some
psychological construct it's not like a
real thing
and as you separate out the expectation
from the action
then you'll be able to act practically
what that looks like is like
you know really exploring you know what
makes it hard for you to go to the gym
and not be perfect
because with the thought of going to the
gym and not being perfect like what does
that
evoke in your mind what's like the
emotion that comes up when you think
about doing that
because chances are it'll be something
like shame it'll be something like
dissatisfaction it'll be it feels like
it's not enough it feels like it's not
enough
and then i encourage you to like look at
that for a second
what you're experiencing there is not
truth
it's an emotion right so like as you
experience the emotion recognize that
that's just an emotion
and this kind of reminds me like this is
a lesson that i learned when i was
talking to someone who was responsible
for security
at a college campus and so like
we i was dealing with someone in the
emergency room who had been through a
traumatic experience and i talked to the
security officer
at the university and then they the
university officer said that
you know so i mentioned them that this
person doesn't feel safe and then the
university person said
it's my job to make campus safe
not to make people feel safe i can't
like control the pa
the way that people feel what i can
control is actually creating an
environment that is like safe for them
to be in
and it was like a shocking thing to say
because it sounded
so like cold and callous on the one hand
right like
and the security guy's like yeah i don't
care if people feel safe
you know that's sort of what it sounded
like but i mean he didn't say that
he wasn't saying that he didn't care he
said that his real responsibility is to
create
a safe environment and sometimes even in
a safe environment people feel
unsafe so what are we actually like what
are we
what are we going off of here like what
is our compass
are we gonna let our feelings of
inadequacy
dictate what we actually do
because as you tunnel down into
perfectionism
what you'll discover is like what's
actually holding you back like what's
what's dictating your life is an emotion
and so like the emotion is like i'm not
saying that we shouldn't be
compassionate towards the emotion
the emotion can be valid but at the end
of the day it's an emotion
and this is the really tricky thing
about emotions is that the more
strong your emotion is the more you
think it is reality
when in actuality the less likely it is
to be
real right so as i become angry
my just my perception of reality becomes
more distorted
the more angry i feel but if you talk to
someone who's angry
they are going to think that their mind
is a hundred percent accurate
and so it's a really problematic like
conundrum
that the more distorted our perceptions
are the more convinced we are that our
perceptions are correct
and so when it comes to perfectionism
pay attention to
what it is that holds you back from
doing something less than perfect
because that's where the money is going
to be and as you are able to
tolerate that negative emotion you will
actually become unstuck
and yeah i mean that's like just to
reiterate like that's
this is why we made the guides because
like you know this the goal is that like
that
you know instead of so let's just think
about this for a second like instead of
like
rng right which is okay so
someone someone um you know just posting
something on reddit it just happens to
be the day that we do a community screen
like a lot of these answers are in the
guides which is why we made them
and so the goal is to like actually give
you guys you know 70
of like what most people need and that's
because the last 30
tends to be like very individual but you
know 70 of it is like
i share the same stuff with like 70 of
people that i work with
so that's what's in there all right
moving on to the next one
community stream stream speaking of
community screen
next one okay